# An eye on the vine - a dataset for fungi segmentation in microscopic vine wood images


## 1. Dataset description and content

This dataset is intended to help solving the problem of pathogen segmentation in fluorescence microscopy images of vine wood.
Because there is no dataset available to cast the problem into a supervised framework, this dataset provides a collection of realistic images based on the knowledge of the image formation model in fluorescence microscopy.

The procedure for generating images can be found in details in the companion paper [1], and relies on:
- using retina features from the DRIVE database [2] to introduce a filamentary structure
- using a fluorescence microscopy 3D PSF, generated by PSF Generator [3]
- creating a depth map that allow to select different sections of the PSF in different regions of the image.

The resulting dataset of synthetic images contains **427** thumbmails together with a ground truth.

To test the efficiency of including semi-real images in training, we also include **881** real thumbnails with their corresponding ground truth. We split these in two, depending on the presence or not of fungi in the images (569 and 312 images respectively).

Finally, the source full-sized images are incorporated in the database for reference.


## 2. Folder structure

The database consists in images arranged by folder, along the following arborescence :

- Thumbnail images
    - Synthetic images 
    - Real images
        - With fungi
        - Without fungi
- Original images
	- Microscope 1
	- Microscope 2
	
Each leaf folder is subdivided into :
- images : contains the RGB image in .png or .tif format
- masks : contains the manually-obtained binary segmentation mask

## 3. Instrumental parameters

**Microscope 1** is a Motic BA210E microscope, with:
- Camera Moticam3+ 3.0MP
- Filters: EX 480SP, DM 505LP, BA 520LP
- 40x zoom and 0.65 NA / 10x zoom and 0.25 NA
	
**Microscope 2** is a wide-field BX51 Olympus microscope, with:
- Camera ORCA-Fusion Hamamatsu CMOS
- Filters : GFP and wide-spectrum
- 40x zoom and 0.65 NA
    

## 4. Plant material and fungal inoculation

One-year-old potted Gewurztraminer cuttings were surface sterilised and injured in the middle of the internode with a 5mm driller. Plants were inoculated with a 5mm plug of fungal mycelium growing on Potato Dextrose Agar medium. Controls specimens consisted in undamaged non-inoculated plants and damaged plants inoculated with a sterile plug of PDA medium. 

All treatments were harvested at 14 weeks post inoculation and stored at -20°C before processing. Then, 25 μm sections were made with a microtome, and observed under the microscope after a WGA-fitc staining treatment according to [4].

The resulting small bank of image was then labeled by expert annotation.

## 5. Authors
 
Julie Munsch (1,2), Sonia Ouali (1), Jean-Baptiste Courbot (1), Romain Pierron (3), Olivier Haeberlé (1)

(1) IRIMAS UR 7499, Université de Haute-Alsace, Mulhouse, France
(2) Eiffage Énergie Systèmes -- Clemessy, Mulhouse, France
(3) LVBE UR 3991, Université de Haute-Alsace, Mulhouse, France

Contact : jean-baptiste.courbot@uha.fr

## 6. References

**[1]** Munsch, J. and Ouali, S. and Courbot, J.-B. and Pierron, R. and Haeberlé, O. (2024). Data augmentation for pathogen segmentation in vine wood fluorescence microscopy images -- *submitted communication*
**[2]** Staal, J. J., Abramoff, M. D., Niemeijer, M., Viergever, M. A., & van Ginneken, B. (2004). DRIVE: digital retinal images for vessel extraction. IEEE Trans. Med. Imaging, 23(4), 501-509.
**[3]** Kirshner, H., Aguet, F., Sage, D., & Unser, M. (2013). 3‐D PSF fitting for fluorescence microscopy: implementation and localization application. Journal of microscopy, 249(1), 13-25.
**[4]** Pierron, R., Gorfer, M., Berger, H., Jacques, A., Sessitsch, A., Strauss, J., & Compant, S. (2015). Deciphering the niches of colonisation of Vitis vinifera L. by the esca-associated fungus Phaeoacremonium aleophilum using a GFP marked strain and cutting systems. PLoS One, 10(6), e0126851.

## Licence

The present database is licensed under Creative Commons CC-BY-SA : https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/


